fix: correct Auth0 export users script and update documentation (#2330)
ory/docs: docs/migrate-to-ory/auth0.mdx

If your setup is different, you can use this document as a starting point in defining your own migration procedure.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- Auth0 account with admin access to export user data
- Ory account with an Ory project already created - See [creating a project](docs/migrate-to-ory/migrate/create-project.mdx) for
  instructions
- Required tools:
  - [jq](https://jqlang.org/) - Command-line JSON processor
  - [Gzip](https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/) - Compression utility
  - [Ory CLI](../guides/cli/01_installation.mdx) - Ory command-line interface
- Time estimate: 1-2 hours depending on the number of users

## Overview

The migration process consists of three phases:

1. [Prepare your Auth0 data](#prepare-your-auth0-data): Export user data and password hashes
2. [Configure your Ory project](#configure-your-ory-project): Set up identity schema for email authentication
3. [Import users to Ory](#import-users-to-ory): Run the migration import script to create users in Ory

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Get API access token and connection ID

Follow these steps to get the Management API Access Token and connection ID:

1. Go to your [Auth0 dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#) and navigate to **Applications** → **APIs**.
2. Select **Auth0 Management API** and go to the **API Explorer** tab. Copy the displayed token.

   :::warning Token expiration

   The token is valid for 24 hours by default and is configurable.

   :::

3. Go to **Authentication** and navigate to **Database**.
4. Click the connection for which you want to export user data and copy its ID.

### Run export script

The export script accounts for all possible metrics you can export in a bulk user export. The bulk user export is a compressed,
newline-delimited JSON file. The process takes some time to complete and the compressed file is downloaded automatically when it's
ready.

Follow these steps to export the user data:

1. Export the required environment variables:

   ```shell
   export AUTH0_DOMAIN="your_auth0_domain.auth0.com"
   export AUTH0_CONNECTION_ID="your_auth0_connection_id"
   export AUTH0_TOKEN="your_auth0_management_api_token"
   ```

2. Run the export script:

   ```shell

>    bash <(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/docs/master/code-examples/migrate-to-ory/0-get-auth0-user-data.sh)

Author: @vinckr The fixed version of the script is not yet merged to master, try this branch's version: 

`bash <(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/docs/refs/heads/wassimoo/fix-auth0-migration-and-update-docs/code-examples/migrate-to-ory/0-get-auth0-user-data.sh)`

### Export password hashes

Exporting password hashes is optional but recommended. Because password hashes are considered sensitive information, Auth0 doesn't
export them as part of the general export process. To get the password hashes and other password-related information, you must
[create an Auth0 support ticket](#create-auth0-support-ticket).

- If you get your users' password hashes and import them to Ory, users can log in to their accounts using the same credentials
  they used before the migration. For more information, see
  [Bulk identity migration](../migrate-to-ory/migrate/migrate-strategies#bulk-identity-migration).

- If you can't get users' password hashes, you can still import Auth0 user accounts to Ory and migrate the hashes using a
  [Password migration hook](../kratos/manage-identities/25_import-user-accounts-identities.mdx). For more information, see
  [Graceful identity migration](../migrate-to-ory/migrate/migrate-strategies#graceful-identity-migration).

:::note

Password hash exports are not available for Auth0's Free subscription tier. You'll need a paid Auth0 plan to request this data.

:::

> #### Create Auth0 support ticket

Reviewer 2: Normally I would agree we should not document another company's product. But I'd keep it in for now.

If your setup is different, you can use this document as a starting point in defining your own migration procedure.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- Auth0 account with admin access to export user data

> - Ory account and CLI installed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ory account with an Ory project already created - See [creating a project](docs/migrate-to-ory/migrate/create-project.mdx) for instructions
```

Reviewer 2: We repeat the Ory CLI tool below in the Required tools section.

- Ory project created - See [creating a project](docs/migrate-to-ory/migrate/create-project.mdx) for instructions

> - Required tools:

Reviewer 2: Add a bullet for the migration scripts. For example: "[Export](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/docs/master/code-examples/migrate-to-ory/0-get-auth0-user-data.sh)
and [import](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/docs/master/code-examples/migrate-to-ory/1-create-ory-identities.sh) migration scripts."

  - [jq](https://jqlang.org/) - Command-line JSON processor
  - [Gzip](https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/) - Compression utility
  - [Ory CLI](../guides/cli/01_installation.mdx) - Ory command-line interface
- Time estimate: 1-2 hours depending on the number of users

## Overview

The migration process consists of three phases:

1. [Prepare your Auth0 data](#prepare-your-auth0-data): Export user data and password hashes
2. [Configure your Ory project](#configure-your-ory-project): Set up identity schema for email authentication
3. [Import users to Ory](#import-users-to-ory): Run the migration script to create users in Ory

---

## Prepare your Auth0 data

### Create bulk user export

> To create a [bulk user export](https://auth0.com/docs/manage-users/user-migration/bulk-user-exports), you need a Management API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a [bulk user export](https://auth0.com/docs/manage-users/user-migration/bulk-user-exports), you need the Management API
```

Access Token and the ID of your connection. This data is used by the migration script you run to get the user data. You can
inspect the script
[here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/docs/master/code-examples/migrate-to-ory/0-get-auth0-user-data.sh).

#### Get API access token and connection ID

Follow these steps to get the Management API Access Token and connection ID:

1. Go to your [Auth0 dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#) and navigate to **Applications** → **APIs**.
2. Select **Auth0 Management API** and go to the **API Explorer** tab. Copy the displayed token.

   :::warning Token expiration

   The token is valid for 24 hours by default and is configurable.

   :::

3. Go to **Authentication** and navigate to **Database**.
4. Click the connection for which you want to export user data and copy its ID.

> #### Run export script

Reviewer 2: Increasing the heading level to match "Run import script" later

> The script accounts for all possible metrics you can export in a bulk user export. The bulk user export is a compressed,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The export script accounts for all possible metrics you can export in a bulk user export. The bulk user export is a compressed,
```

newline-delimited JSON file. The process takes some time to complete and the compressed file is downloaded automatically when it's
ready.

Follow these steps to export the user data:

> 1. Export the required environment variables:

Reviewer 2: I'm confused on this step. Where are these variables being exported from? Once exported, what do you do with them. Are the used to customize the export script? Didn't we just get the connection ID and token in the section directly above?

   ```shell
   export AUTH0_DOMAIN="your_auth0_domain.auth0.com"
   export AUTH0_CONNECTION_ID="your_auth0_connection_id"
   export AUTH0_TOKEN="your_auth0_management_api_token"
   ```

> 2. Run the script:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Run the export script:
```

   ```shell
   bash <(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/docs/master/code-examples/migrate-to-ory/0-get-auth0-user-data.sh)
   ```

>    This script creates `AUTH0_USERDATA.json` in your current directory and contains all the exported user data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This export script creates `AUTH0_USERDATA.json` in your current directory and contains all the exported user data.
```

If your setup is different, you can use this document as a starting point in defining your own migration procedure.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- **Auth0 account** with admin access to export user data
- **Ory account** and CLI installed
  {/* TODO: change this to refer to new migration guide (docs/migrate-to-ory/migrate/create-project.mdx) */}

> - **Ory project** created - See [creating a project](index.mdx) for instructions

Reviewer 2: You should link to here for create project: docs/migrate-to-ory/migrate/create-project

newline-delimited JSON file. The process takes some time to complete and the compressed file is downloaded automatically when it's
ready.

Follow these steps to export the user data:

1. Export the required environment variables:

   ```shell
   export AUTH0_DOMAIN="your_auth0_domain.auth0.com"
   export AUTH0_CONNECTION_ID="your_auth0_connection_id"
   export AUTH0_TOKEN="your_auth0_management_api_token"
   ```

2. Run the script:

   ```shell
   bash <(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/docs/master/code-examples/migrate-to-ory/0-get-auth0-user-data.sh)
   ```

   This script creates `AUTH0_USERDATA.json` in your current directory containing all exported user data.

### 2. Export password hashes

Exporting password hashes is optional but recommended. Because password hashes are considered sensitive information, Auth0 doesn't
export them as part of the general export process. To get the password hashes and other password-related information, you must
[create an Auth0 support ticket](#create-auth0-support-ticket).

If you get your users' password hashes and import them to Ory, users can log in to their accounts using the same credentials they

> used before the migration. If you can't get users' password hashes, you can still import Auth0 user accounts to Ory and migrate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
used before the migration. 
- Graceful identity migration: If you can't get users' password hashes, you can still import Auth0 user accounts to Ory and migrate
```

> used before the migration. If you can't get users' password hashes, you can still import Auth0 user accounts to Ory and migrate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
used before the migration. If you can't get users' password hashes, you can still import Auth0 user accounts to Ory and migrate. For more information, see [Graceful identity migration](../migrate-to-ory/migrate/migrate-strategies#graceful-identity-migration)
```

```

---

## Import users to Ory

### Configure environment variables

> Configure the migration script by exporting the necessary environment variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set necessary environment variables for the import script:
```

```

:::info Migration Mode

- Set `RESERVE_ONLY="false"` if you have password hashes
- Set `RESERVE_ONLY="true"` if you don't have password hashes

:::

### Run import script

Execute the migration script to import users:

```shell
bash <(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/docs/master/code-examples/migrate-to-ory/1-create-ory-identities.sh)
```

You can inspect the script
[here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/docs/master/code-examples/migrate-to-ory/1-create-ory-identities.sh).

---

## Post-migration steps

After the import script completes, follow these steps to verify and finalize the migration:

1. Verify the migration: Check the list of users available in your project to confirm the import was successful:

   ```shell
   ory list identities --project $ORY_PROJECT_ID --workspace $ORY_WORKSPACE_ID
   ```

2. Test user login: Try logging in with a few test accounts to ensure the migration was successful.

3. Enable account recovery (if migrating without password hashes):

   - Users will need to reset their passwords on first login
   - Ensure [account recovery](../kratos/self-service/flows/account-recovery-password-reset) is enabled

>    - Communicate this to your users before migration

Author: Removed.
